# Jailbroken iOS 6 can still play 1080p/h264 MKV files using hardware acceleration
*Date: 28 April 2024*

Hey !

Just wanna share some thoughts and success. I own an iPad 4 that is coolbooted on iOS 6.1.3.

Starting iOS 8, apps from the app store can use the "VideoToolkit" APIs which allows for hardware acceleration. If you want to use your iPad 4 on iOS 10 or iOS 8, there's many many options that will work pretty much the same and will use hardware acceleration "out of the box".

The problem is : I wanna use everything with this iPad only on iOS 6, because nostalgia (and because iOS 6 is so fast), and because I am curious to use it just like it was in 2012 and see what is was capable of. I untethered coolbooter, so my iPad starts on iOS 6. I was also curious to see how good those devices could play high quality 1080p h264 videos, as Apple advertised them as perfectly capable of playing those video streams back in the day.

First and foremost, we need to speak about encoding. It's crucial to know precisely the files you are going to put on that old device. There's limitations. I use handbrake and an M1 mac to convert videos in an optimised format. Don't expect that iPad to play in good conditions almost anything you will randomly "find" on the Internet. Also don't expect your iOS 6 device to play HEVC/AV1 video content, it will be damn slow excepted in very low resolution/bitrate maybe.

I followed multiple ways to get the best possible experience for video playback, and the solution is Kodi !

But not that Kodi 17, an even older version ! Kodi 16 is the last one that seemed to be able to take profit of the "jailbroken" access of VideoToolkit. iOS 6 and iOS 7 were very particular as Apple did not want app makers to use the hardware acceleration to decode videos. No "real" apps could take advantages of it, but Kodi found a bypass to use it anyway, but that bypass requires jailbreak and some kind of low-level tinkering that seems to be broken starting Kodi 17. Here is the file you need to sideload : [org.xbmc.kodi-ios\_16.1-0\_iphoneos-arm.deb](http://cdimage.debian.org/mirror/xbmc.org/apt/ios/deb/org.xbmc.kodi-ios_16.1-0_iphoneos-arm.deb) then you need to install it using iFile. By enabling debug settings, you will see that it will play your 1080p/30 FPS file by using now only around 30% of CPU. It seems really reliable, it can understand MKV containers and it does not look like it is skipping any frames. You can even customize many things like the contrast etc which you cannot do using the stock OS video player.

TL;dr : If you are on iOS 8+, use Kodi 17 or any "serious" video playing app from the AppStore (Infuse or VLC). If you are on iOS 6, Kodi 16 is the best option.

To conclude, playing content with great quality (and especially on iOS 5/6/7) with an old iPad is difficult nowadays : it requires knowledge on many levels (excepted if you buy movies or series directly from iTunes I guess) : you need to know precisely your files and to have some hardware to encode them (which takes around 20 minutes for each movie), then you need to connect your iPad (over USB or Wi-Fi) to transfer those files in order to play them with Kodi. Also, you need to find all of your content DRM-free by your own means which is also a problem if Netflix is your primary source of entertainment. Netflix is completely dead on the iPad 4, you cannot log-in using the official app even on iOS 10 and even when it was possible some years ago the content was at DVD quality (480p). What's frustrating with how Internet is evolving fast is how perfectly capables devices become perceived as useless just because they cannot connect to X popular service anymore which has X amount of proprietary DRMs to give (mostly an illusion of) control for rights holders.

But if you know what you do, and only by using free and open source softwares and jailbreak, even on its original firmware (iOS 6), 1080p/30 is possible and with really good quality and all outside the proprietary iTunes ecosystem. It is looking really good with those settings. The screen on this retina iPad is also far from obsolete. Yes, mini-led and OLED is superior in terms of rendering of blacks, but that LCD screen on that iPad has vibrant colours and can go really bright.

Bonus :

* I transfer my video files directly using the Finder. I transfer my video files to the Infuse 1.5 then I created a shortcut from Kodi to use my Documents folder of Infuse. So, anything I will transfer to my iPad will be accessible by Infuse 1.5 (which is sandboxed) AND by Kodi at the same time. Infuse also gives me the ability to transfer video files over wifi but it will be slower than USB2. With USB2, you can transfer a video file at around 30 MegaBytes/second while on the wifi network it will be around 6 MegaBytes/second so it's better to connect the iPad to the PC to do the transfers.
* I will post some pictures of the playback of some videos if you wanna see how good that 2012 beast is running :)

Below in the code block it is my handbrake config you can directly import if you use an Apple Silicon Mac. It will produce properly encoded and file size efficient h264 files that will be pretty good looking for an acceptable amount of space. The audio is AAC Stereo converted at 160kbps, which is more than enough to be transparent to your delicate ears. If you wanna change the audio format to EA3, it should work ok but you will waste precious disk space for little to no quality improvement. Also, don't try to put any DTS audio : it will not work (excepted if you use Infuse 3 on iOS 8+) and will not really improve much the perceived quality anyway and you will probably waste a lot of battery life also.

Here is the full list of video players I did try without great success or that are suffering big compromises on iOS 6 (so you will not waste time by trying those by yourself) :

* Infuse version 1.5 : Well, it basically work. If you put SD content (480p), it will be OK but keep in mind that this version on iOS 6 will not use hardware decoding on anything. The 1080p content with below params will skip rarely some frames. It's not a bad experience but it will ruin your battery life for sure.
* AcePlayer version 3.9 : This one is a clever one, it will pass your files directly to the QuickTime Apple player (which is hardware accelerated) if they are compatible (mp4 or mov). If you modify slightly my handbrake params to export as an mp4 container, it will work. But native iOS 6 player feels very limited (there is no real way to fastly come back to a short distance like 15 seconds without moving the slider and be really imprecise) and the mp4 container has a big problem : you cannot put multiple subtitles tracks on it.
* Kodi : I tried the latest legacy version which is Kodi 17. Well it's working, it can play directly any video content and can even connect to many protocols to get files from. But you will see by looking at details that it is playing the files (even on mp4 containers) without any hardware acceleration ! If you check the details, you will see that your CPU will be around 130% all the time. Playback will look just like on Infuse 1.5 : I can't see many dropped frames. But your battery will suffer. A lot.

General thoughts :  
The battery life is still amazing even with many cycles, it will still lasts a few hours and more enough to finish at least one 2H movie. Mine seems like to be autonomous at least 4/5 hours while playing a 1080p content with maximum brightness.

Think about it, those iPads can be found in good shape for really cheap on some countries (around 50 dollars) with 32 or 64GB of storage and will still delivers (with that extra work) a much more pleasant experience (at least for videos playback) than any no-name random shit from Amazon. It can be good for childrens, or just to use it yourself to watch some movies on your bed. Those very old iOS devices are also good for mobile retro-gaming, there's so many real offline games without ads and bullshit. Yeah there's no Genshin impact and things like that and social games... just good offline games from a great time of mobile gaming. Those iPads are still also perfectly capable of reading PDFs or Ebooks which can also be a great usage to still enjoy its gorgeous screen and avoid e-waste. Also, in my opinion and by looking on the technical specs of some older devices, any slightly older device with an A5-chip (iPod Touch 5G, iPad 2/iPad 3/iPad Mini 1G/iPhone 4S) should also be able to hardware-decode 1080p/30FPS using the same settings and the same version of Kodi on iOS 6 (or even iOS 5 !) without issues, but I do not have the hardware to test.

iOS 8 thoughts :  
After messing things for fun on iOS 6, I went back to iOS 8. At this moment, I just tried using the latest Legacy Kodi that is available on bigboss repo : Kodi 17. On iOS 8 it's really great, it seems very fast and reliable, even more compared to how Kodi 16 performs on iOS 6 (which was an acceptable experience). Kodi 17 is noticeably faster especially when you are on forward/rewind mode. So if you wanna use the best of what your hardware is capable of, iOS 8 is the minimum version you will want to use.  
I am too lazy to try a very old version of Infuse for iOS 8 that will probably work fine with hardware acceleration but transfering files through the syncing window in the Finder is boring and limited and Kodi is full featured and also open source. Kodi 17 is also probably a better polished experience than Infuse since it was maintainted until 2020 which is just a few years back (edit : it is not, look at the paragraph just below... :P ). Now I use Apple File Conduit 2 from Cydia that can be exploited by iExplorer or iFunBox on the Mac to move videos files directly to the file system.  
I removed Coolbooter at this moment to reclaim some precious gigs of storage.

More thoughts about iOS 8 (from one day later) :

I motivated myself to get into Infuse. Well, it was really worth it.

I tried all builds starting Infuse 3 (first compatible iOS 8 version). Here is the latest compatible build : Infuse\_Pro\_5\_5.5.1754.ipa , don't try anything later than this on iOS 8, it's the last version that is compatible with iOS 8. But it's not the last version compatible with 32 bits devices, so if you are on iOS 9 or on iOS 10 the latest compatible version will be probably much higher for you.

Here is what you will get in addition from that Infuse build compared to Kodi 17 on iOS 8 :

* I noticed a serious bug in Kodi 17 : if you press the home button to show the iOS springboard then go back to Kodi, the video playback is completely bug and the app will completely crash (and it seems to forget about the progress of your content when it crashes). Infuse does not have this bug, it just work. I don't know if the bug was also present in iOS 6 but on iOS 8 I can reproduce it everytime even if I downgrade to Kodi 16 (edit : on iOS 6, this bug is not present with Kodi !).
* Kodi can't send anything with AirPlay (only receive). Infuse can send video files with AirPlay or Google Cast protocol. I did try using Google Cast, however the video stream is laggy. I tested to AirPlay content to the Mac, but it's crashing 2 seconds after the start of the video. Maybe AirPlay will work with some old Apple TV ? Who knows. The iPad 4 seems too old to cast 1080p in good conditions, at least using Google Cast.
* Files tagging : it still work on this version of Infuse if you do it manually for each of your files. It's looking really great, you can see artwork from your movies and proper covers.
* Multi-touch gestures while playing content ! 2-fingers tap to pause, double tap to zoom, 2-fingers swipe to go back/forward 30 seconds. It's great to have modern ergonomics on such an old hardware and old iOS version...
* Native iOS app : it's looking really like, it is and feels as a real iOS app
* No weird error (version check) each time you launch Kodi. Infuse just work and is really fast.

I can't recommend you enough to find Infuse Pro and to support the devs (I sailed the seas to find that IPA but I own a perpetual license of the current version). I did not expect it to be such a step up compared to the last compatible Kodi version. On that old iPad I do not bother anymore on connecting it with my Apple account, I have a personal archive of IPAs and I just sideload everything I need directly to it, as long as you have the IPAs it is a much faster experience than using the real App Store on the device and it is also more future proof as I do not depend on Apple servers to re-install my apps if I replace or reinstall that iDevice.

About A4 devices (iPod Touch 4G/iPad 1/iPhone 4) :

You can follow the same guide but you will also need to tweak Handbrake to convert at 720p maximum and to lower the bitrate and the level (3.1 maximum). It should work just fine as long as you respect roughly that technical specifications but I do not have the hardware to test. That 720p quality should be fine for random animes, but there's less fun doing that kind of tinkering in my opinion since you will really see visually a huge regression compared to what you want to expect from "modern" tech noawadays. The A4 iPad 1G is not even with a retina display, which fact makes everything looking much worse and aged by itself.

Handbrake profiles :

* Software encoding. Software encoding will be very slow, but this profile will produce very high quality "HDLite" files that are 2 times less heavy (and really the most small x264 can produce). However, it's much slower compared to hardware encoding. Though I hightly recommend this profile and be patient so you will save a lot of space on your tablet. h264 is truly impressive with this profile and deploys its full potential at producing very high quality files with a very small storage footprint. What's impressive with that profile is that you get even better quality with 2x less file sizes compared to the hardware encoding.

[https://pastebin.com/iK3dVJ3D](https://pastebin.com/iK3dVJ3D)

If you encode something different than animation, change the profile adequately. Also if you are not converting from a bluray remux file (which contains a lot of information for the encoder to work with), you may increase a bit the quality to reduce the risk of having visual glitches, to RF22 for instance.

* Hardware encoding using VideoToolbox on a M1 Mac. It's much faster, it's looking great (though not perfect). Use it if conversion speed matters to you and if you do not care about getting movies around 5GB/files

[https://pastebin.com/GY0RjqTD](https://pastebin.com/GY0RjqTD)

On both profiles, audio is converted to Stereo AAC 160 kbps. It's a transparent audio quality and is suitable for a tablet. Also, AAC is efficient and fast. You can probably reduce the bitrate to 128kbps to save even more space but in my opinion it does not worth it as you may risk to ear some compression artifacts.